Extensive convolutions of the cerebral cortex are only seen in mammals with larger brains, such as dolphins, apes and humans, and are required for complex thought and reasoning. Although they are among the most striking features of the human brain, the biological basis leading to their formation is not fully understood.

A recent publication in Nature Genetics ([DOI:10.1038/ng.836](http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/ng.836)) describing a genetic analysis of a Turkish patient revealed that the deletion of two base pairs in the laminin gamma3 gene ([LAMC3](http://www.nextprot.org/db/entry/NX_Q9Y6N6)) was sufficient to create abnormalities in cerebral cortical morphology. Different mutations in the LAMC3 gene were found in other affected individuals with nearly identical phenotypes. These mutations lead to premature termination of the LAMC3 protein that normally consists in 1’575 amino acids.

LAMC3 was known to be involved in cell adhesion, but its role during brain development had not been investigated. LAMC3 expression in human is first detected after mid-gestation, and peaks at an interval from late fetal development to late infancy, coinciding with the period of cortical organization. LAMC3 primarily localizes to the soma and apical dendrite of pyramidal neurons, which suggests that it may be important for dendritogenesis and synapse formation.

Interestingly, the deletion of Lamc3 in mice is silent, and the mouse LAMC3 protein seems to be absent from neurons during development. This shows that LAMC3 expression and function has diverged on the mammalian lineage and that mouse models cannot be used to understand further the function of LAMC3 and its partners in human brain development.
