Zhang C, Lane L, Omenn GS, Zhang Y. J. Proteome Res. 2019 Oct 4. [doi: 10.1021/acs.jproteome.9b00537](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jproteome.9b00537).

##Abstract

In 2018, we reported a hybrid pipeline that predicts protein structures with I-TASSER and function with COFACTOR. I-TASSER/COFACTOR achieved Gene Ontology (GO) high prediction accuracies of Fmax=0.69 and 0.57 for molecular function (MF) and biological process (BP), respectively, on 100 comprehensively-annotated proteins. Now we report blinded analyses of newly-annotated proteins in the Critical Assessment of Function Annotation (CAFA) 3 function prediction challenge and in neXtProt. For CAFA3 results released in May 2019, our predictions on 267 and 912 human proteins with newly-annotated MF and BP terms achieved Fmax=0.50 and 0.42, respectively, on "No Knowledge" proteins, and 0.51 and 0.74, respectively, on "Limited Knowledge" proteins. While COFACTOR consistently outperforms simple homology-based analysis, its accuracy still depends on template availability. Meanwhile, in neXtProt 2019-01, 25 proteins acquired new function annotation through literature curation at UniProt/Swiss-Prot. Before the release of these curated results, we submitted to neXtProt blinded predictions of free-text function annotation based on predicted GO terms. For 10 of the 25, a good match of free-text or GO term annotation was obtained. These blind tests represent rigorous assessments of I-TASSER/COFACTOR. neXtProt will provide links to pre-computed I-TASSER/COFACTOR predictions for proteins without function annotation to facilitate experimental planning on "dark proteins".
