
Around 20,300 protein-coding genes have been predicted from the analysis of the human genome. Transcriptomic analyses such as DNA microarray or RNA sequencing have shown that these genes are expressed in a large dynamic range in the &#126;230 cell types that comprise the human body. More than fifty percent of them give rise to alternative splicing isoforms. During or after translation, numerous chemical modifications of the protein products can occur (processing, post-translational modifications, etc.), resulting in a huge variability of proteoforms that vary with time, location, and physiologic or disease conditions. One can estimate that one million proteoforms coexist in a single individual. This variability does not take into account the inter-individual variations due to frequent polymorphisms or rare mutations. Due to recent progress in DNA sequencing technologies, this inter-individual variability can now be analyzed in detail across populations. Recent advances in proteomics technologies allow detecting and quantifying proteins and their modifications with a higher precision. However, many proteins predicted from genomic or transcriptomic analyses still escape detection, either because they were improperly predicted, or because their expression is restricted in time and/or space, or their biophysical and chemical properties are not compatible with usual proteomics experiments.

The aim of neXtProt is to document and reflect the inter- and intra-individual diversity of human proteins at genomic, transcriptomic and proteomic levels. The manually reviewed corpus of information available in UniProtKB provides the groundwork for neXtProt. neXtProt includes all Reviewed UniProtKB entries for Homo Sapiens (TaxID: 9606) having the keyword Complete proteome (KW-0181). As in UniProtKB, all the proteoforms arising from a given protein-coding gene are usually described in a single entry. In the current neXtProt release there are ${ENTRY_COUNT} entries, encompassing ${ISOFORM_COUNT} splicing isoforms, ${VARIANT_COUNT} single amino acid variations and ${PTM_COUNT} PTMs. 

Like UniProtKB, neXtProt provides a &#34;protein existence&#34; status to each entry, which indicates the type of evidence that supports the existence of the protein. The value &#39;Experimental evidence at protein level&#39; (PE1) indicates that there is clear experimental evidence for the existence of at least one proteoform in the entry. The criteria include partial or complete Edman sequencing, clear identification by mass spectrometry, X-ray or NMR structure, good quality protein-protein interaction or detection of the protein by antibodies. The value &#39;Experimental evidence at transcript level&#39; (PE2) indicates that the existence of a protein has not been proven but that expression data (such as existence of cDNA(s), RT-PCR or Northern blots) indicate the existence of a transcript. The value &#39;Protein inferred by homology&#39; (PE3) indicates that the existence of a protein is probable because clear orthologs exist in closely related species. The value &#39;Protein predicted&#39; (PE4) is used for entries without evidence at protein, transcript, or homology levels. Finally, the value &#39;Protein uncertain&#39; (PE5) indicates that the existence of the protein is unsure and that it most probably corresponds to an incorrect in silico translation of a non-coding element.

The international HUPO [Human Proteome Project](https://hupo.org/human-proteome-project) (HPP) was designed in 2010 to apply mass spectrometry to validate the so-called &#34;missing proteins&#34; that were confidently predicted but have not been detected at protein level yet (PE2-4). Currently, there are [${MISSING_PROTEIN_COUNT} such &#34;missing proteins&#34;](/proteins/search?mode=advanced&queryId=NXQ_00204). To see the detailed distribution across chromosomes, go to the [protein existence status](/about/protein-existence). Validation of a missing protein follows rigorous [standards](https://hupo.org/HPP-Data-Interpretation-Guidelines) and requires that at least 2 uniquely mapping, non-overlapping peptides of at least 9 amino-acids are confidently identified. Our [peptide uniqueness checker](/tools/peptide-uniqueness-checker) helps determine which peptides are unambiguous and can thus be used to confidently identify protein entries.

Importantly, proving the existence of a protein in a biological sample is not equivalent as characterizing its function. Functionally characterizing a protein is an arduous task that cannot be automatized. Bioinformatics tools can help predicting the function of a protein based on its sequence or structure similarity to known proteins, its co-expression with other proteins, or its phylogenetic profile. But many proteins do not have any similarity with characterized proteins, and their expression or phylogenetic profile is not very discriminant. Currently, there are [${PROTEIN_WITH_NO_FUNCTION_ANNOTATED_COUNT} proteins](/proteins/search?mode=advanced&queryId=NXQ_00022) with no function annotated, either predicted by bioinformatics analysis or experimentally studied. The HPP recently launched a new initiative to characterize them experimentally. 
