On [April 28, 2021](../news/new-community-function-predictions), neXtProt began to host protein function predictions to support the HUPO C-HPP consortium effort to complete the human functional proteome. At the time, predictions for 7 entries were made available. The **functional proteome project** [page](../about/functional-proteome-project) explains the goal of the project, tracks its progress, and indicates how you can participate by submitting predictions for the function of human proteins to neXtProt.

In the meantime, we published a manual data mining workflow to generate functional hypotheses for uncharacterized human proteins  and its application by undergraduate students ([doi: 10.1093/database/baab046](https://doi.org/10.1093/database/baab046)). The neXtProt team and the University of Geneva students who took the Functionathon course continued proposing function predictions for human proteins.

Function predictions compiled from recent publications for 124 new entries are now available. **This brings the total number of entries with predictions to 204,** out of the [1,557 entries](../proteins/search?mode=advanced&queryId=NXQ_00022) that have no function annotated in the current 2022-05-19 neXtProt release. The list of entries with predictions is found [here](../proteins/search?listId=RFIEMSW9).

**Help us reach the 500 entry mark!** We're calling on all annotators and bioinformaticians to submit predictions or additional evidence supporting the predictions. We're also eager to have web lab scientists test the predictions experimentally and publish the results to help us advance our knowledge of the human proteome.
